.TH l1ght 1 "October 2024" fence "User manual"
.SH NAME
l1ght - Brigthness control

.SH SYNOPSIS
.SY l1ght
.OP \-p
.OP \-d DEVICE
.OP \--monitor
.RI [ ACTION ]
.SY l1ght
.OP \-p
.OP \-d DEVICE
.B \--max
.SY l1ght
.B \--list
.OP \--help
.OP \--version
.YS

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B l1ght 
lets you control backlight devices. 
.br
It is mainly intended for laptops, but drivers for external monitors do exist.
.br
It can be used with any device exposed to 
.IR /sys/class/backlight .

When run without any arguments it will output the current brightness value of the default device.

Additionally it accepts an 
.I ACTION
which can either increase, decrease or set the current brightness.

.SH ACTIONS

.TP 
.BI + $VAL
Increases the brightness by
.IR $VAL .

.TP
.BI - $VAL
Decrease the brightness by
.IR $VALUE .

.TP
.BI = $VAL
Sets the brightness to 
.IR $VAL .

.TP 
.BI + $VAL %
Increases the brightness by
.IR $VAL 
in percentage.

.TP
.BI - $VAL %
Decrease the brightness by
.IR $VAL 
in percentage.

.TP
.BI = $VAL %
Sets the brightness to 
.IR $VAL 
in percentage.

.SH OPTIONS
.SS Generic Program Information

.TP

.BR -V ", " --version
Outputs the version of 
.BR l1ght .

.TP
.BR -h ", " --help
Outputs a usage message.

.SS Subcommands

.TP
.BR -l ", " --list
Outputs a list of all available backlight devices on the system.

.TP
.BR -m ", " --max
Outputs the maximum brightness value of the targeted device.

.SS Options
.TP
.B -p
Output brightness as a percentage (without a % symbol)

.TP
.BI \-d " NAME" "\fR,\fP --device " NAME
Target a specific backlight device.

The system running the command might have more than one display which exposes brightness controls.

.TP
.BR -M ", " --monitor
Keep monitoring the device for changes in brightness.

Updated values will be printed to Standard Output on every change.

This feature requires udev.

.SH EXAMPLES

.IP l1ght\ -p 
Displays the current brightness of the default device in percentage.

.IP l1ght\ +10%
Increases the brightness of the default device by 10 percent.

.IP l1ght\ -20
Decreases the brightness of the default device by 10.

.IP l1ght\ -d amdgpu_bl2\ =60%
Sets the brightness of the device "amdgpu_bl2" to 60 percent.

.SH AUTHOR
Written by fence.

.SH HISTORY
The program was originally written in May 2018 and has been maintain since.